                       The CRISP package
                          Version 1.3

The GAP package CRISP provides algorithms for computing subgroups of
finite solvable groups related to a group class C. In particular, it
allows to compute C-radicals and C-injectors for Fitting classes (and
Fitting sets) C, C-residuals for formations C, and C-projectors for
Schunck classes C. In order to carry out these computations, the group
class C must be represented by an algorithm which can decide membership
in the group class. 

Moreover, CRISP contains algorithms for the computation of normal subgroups 
invariant under a prescribed set of automorphisms and belonging to a given 
group class.

This includes an improved method to compute the set of all normal subgroups 
of a finite solvable group, its characteristic subgroups, and the socle and 
p-socles for given primes p.

This version of CRISP requires at least GAP 4.4.12.

In order to install CRISP, you have to get the current package archive file 

`crisp-1r3n5.tar.gz', 

or any other package format suitable for your system.

You can download the current package archive from the packages section of 
www.gap-system.org.

To install CRISP, move the downloaded package archive file into the 
`pkg' directory in which you plan to install CRISP. Usually, this will be 
the directory `pkg' in the GAP directory. 

If you already have a previous version of CRISP, that is, there is a 
directory `crisp' in the `pkg' directory, delete (or rename) this 
directory first.

Then decompress the package archive. You should now have a directory `crisp'
in the `pkg' directory. That's all. By default, CRISP is automatically loaded 
when you start GAP, and should be listed among the loaded packages.

To load the CRISP package manually, type

    LoadPackage ("crisp");

at the GAP prompt. If everything is ok, this should return `true'.

Please do not hesitate to report any bugs or other problems/suggestions 
to the author:

Burkhard Hšofling
WWW:    http://www.icm.tu-bs.de/~bhoeflin
e-mail: b.hoefling@tu-bs.de

